- No matter how dedicated you are
to building out your skills,
there will be tasks that pop up
where you'll need to use a language feature, technique
or technology you haven't encountered before.
When these situations arise,
you'll need to quickly build up these skills
through some on-the-job learning to complete your work.
One strategy to do that
is to use an abbreviated cycle of the steps
we discussed earlier when planning your learning activities.
So let's say your task in the latest sprint requires you
to query some data from a GraphQL API
and you've never worked with this type of API before.
First, you'll want to do a quick round of research
to understand the concepts behind GraphQL.
Through a quick search,
you can find the GraphQL foundation's website,
which contains a learning section
that will teach you the basics of using GraphQL.
Now let's imagine that your project uses Java.
You might do a round of research
to discover the GraphQL Java project
that can help you interact with GraphQL APIs.
It seems like a good fit for the situation,
so you would invest a little more time
in reading key parts of the manual for the project.
Most developers despise reading the manual,
but those who do often quickly become the expert
on their team for that topic.
So you've done your research and have a direction,
now, as a quick exercise,
you might build a small proof of concept
that uses the GraphQL project
to call the API that you need to interact with.
Once you have the POC up and running,
it's a good idea to walk through the approach
with one of your teammates that has a bit of experience.
They can provide you with feedback
on how you intend to proceed
or might point you towards other examples in the project
of how this type of feature was handled in the past.
Once you've decided upon a solution,
it's just a matter of implementing it
within your team's product.
Similar to the project work you did early on
when you started your developer journey,
except now, you'll want to create some unit tests
and you might even consider doing a second pass
on your solution to refactor and improve its design.
Even if you've decided to switch directions
after receiving your teammates' feedback,
you'll still benefit from having done some research
and performing a few exercises independently.
This is what I call the learning snowball.
Sometimes your research and proof of concepts
might take you down a path
that doesn't apply to the exact problem
you're looking to resolve at that very moment.
Some might get frustrated or think this time is wasted,
but in my career,
I've found that those experiments and research
come around to benefit you later
when you solve other problems in the future,
so it should be accepted as part of your work.
Kind of like a snowball rolling down a hill,
as your career goes on,
you'll pick up and accumulate knowledge
that expands your mental map of technical concepts
and that's what will make you a stronger,
more experienced developer.